[THEME MUSIC]
>> EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired special agent who served
in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO/ET-related
intelligence.
Today, we are discussing
an incident in Africa.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>> RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>> EMERY: So what UFO incident
took place in Africa and when?
>> RICHARD: Well, in 1989,
South African Air Force tracked
an unidentified flying object
flying from the northeast
to the southwest, near
the Kalahari Desert.
South African Air Force launched
a Mirage, a fighter jet,
and this aircraft had
an experimental weapon
system on board, it's
called a THOR B, which
is a tactical high energy--
or high-powered
operational responder.
That's what THOR meant.
And it was a laser-directed
weapon system.
And this fighter
jet tracked this UFO
and eventually got close enough
to try to identify it and then
try to get
communications with it.
But it was a
saucer-shaped objects.
And all the
communications failed.
And so, the ground
forces, the command center
at the South African
Air Force base,
authorized that pilot to
fire the experimental weapon,
the THOR B weapon, which
the pilot did, and shot down
this UFO.
>> EMERY: It took it out.
>> RICHARD: Took it out with
this energy-directed weapon that
was a laser system.
Again, it was experimental
and this was 1989.
We have those weapons now,
but we're so far advanced.
But in '89, it was an
experimental weapon loaned
to the South Africans by us.
>> EMERY: Why would they fire
upon a craft that's not showing
any aggression?
>> RICHARD: Good question.
That wasn't answered in any of
the reports that OSI received,
but the pilot asked
for permission
and the ground control or
commander authorized it,
and the pilot fired the weapon.
It struck the UFO and the
UFO crashed in the desert.
>> EMERY: So why did they decide
to use this experimental laser
instead of a conventional
weapon that they have?
>> RICHARD: I think this Mirage
didn't have any other weapon
system but this
experimental one.
It just happened to be on alert.
And when this craft came
across South Africa,
that pilot got the alert
notice and he took off.
And to the best of
my knowledge, he
was the only
aircraft in the air.
There wasn't any other
Mirages, and therefore he
had the responsibility of
stopping this aircraft,
trying to get it to land, and,
through a standard international
hailing frequency, calling these
pilots in different languages.
Hey, stop, stop, stop flying.
You penetrated South
African airspace.
And there was no response.
And then the commander
authorized to shoot down,
and that's what the pilot did.
>> EMERY: What is known
about this THOR laser cannon?
I mean, how do they
know that would work
on an extraterrestrial vehicle?
>> RICHARD: It's
a good question.
It's a energy direct
laser weapon system.
It fired a burst of laser
energy at an object.
There was a limited range on it.
I think it was 2000 feet or
something to that effect.
And so the pilot had
to get pretty close.
They're flying at 700
to 800 miles per hour.
They get close to fire that.
And who gave and why they did
this, that was never answered.
But the laser was shot at this
UFO, and it caused it to crash.
It was an experimental weapon,
the THOR B, back in those days.
And if you-- you can Google
online and read about it,
but it's something that was
loaned to the South Africans.
And I believe we loaned
that to some other countries
to protect their airspace.
And that's what they had.
And that's what they used.
>> EMERY: So why was the US
allowing South Africa Air Force
to utilize these
energy beam weapons?
>> RICHARD: This
goes back some years.
There was a plethora of UFO
sightings over South Africa.
Also, at that time,
the country of Rhodesia
had a number of incidents
involving UFOs, some hostile,
including one particular
incident where a UFO forced down
a private airplane, which had
to land with some damage on it.
So we knew, the
United States knew
that there were UFOs being
seen all over South Africa,
and south in that
general area, including
Rhodesia and some of the other
countries, Angola, Mozambique.
And so the United States
loaned this particular weapon
system to the South
African Air Force.
We were friends
with South Africa.
Some of the South
African pilots,
they were flying American
airplanes because they still
had the F-4s during
those days, were
trained in the United States.
So we had a good relationship
with the South African Air
Force.
And we decided to
let them experiment
with one of these weapons, not
thinking that they would ever
use it, maybe in test
routes or test flights,
but come to find out, they
used it, and it worked.
The big question is, was this
weapon system specifically made
to shoot down a UFO?
Now, I wish I knew the
answer to that question.
>> EMERY: How was the
crashed object recovered?
And what was those protocols?
>> RICHARD: The craft crashed
in the Kalahari Desert,
which was some distance away.
So it took some time for an Air
Force convoy, South African Air
Force convoy, to get
to the site to find out
exactly what they shot down.
But when they got there, they
found this huge craft which was
60-feet in diameter,
about 20 feet high.
It weighed 18 tons or
so, and it was open.
The bottom part of
the craft was open.
Now, they don't know if the
propulsion system malfunctioned
and pushed open the bottom
part of the aircraft
or whether there was
a door that opened.
That was confusing.
The report is online.
You can read this South
African report, most of it.
And the classified
portions you can't.
And of course, the OSI report
that I'm going to talk about
is not online.
It's still classified.
So it's open, so when the South
African recovery team-- now this
was a South African recovery
team, not the Special Downed
Aircraft Recovery Team of
the United States Air Force.
They came much later.
The South African
Air Force got there.
They saw the craft open.
They started
removing the bodies.
The bodies were about
4 foot, 5 foot tall.
They were large heads,
large eyes, gray in color.
They had tight-fitting suit.
They had no ears, two
slits for the nose,
a small mouth, long arms,
typical extraterrestrial.
More like a Grey, OK?
Now--
>> EMERY: How many
occupants were there?
>> RICHARD: I believe
there were four occupants.
>> EMERY: And they
all died on impact?
>> RICHARD: Yeah, they
all died on impact.
There were no live
extraterrestrials.
Now, at some point
along the way,
the South African
government notified
the US embassy, Johannesburg,
and asked for assistance
on this.
They explained
what had happened.
The Air Force attaché, defense
attaché at the embassy,
our embassy, then requested,
sent messages out,
and a crash recovery
team, the SDART team,
came from Wiesbaden Air Base,
in Germany, to South Africa
four days later.
Along with that
SDART team, an OSI--
two OSI agents came with it.
Eventually there were other OSIs
that came from South African
operating location.
I think two others.
Anyways, so the SDART
team did get involved,
but after the South African
Air Force had already
started the recovery process.
And South Africa was uncertain
about techniques used
in downed aircraft recovery.
They didn't want to
do something that
was detrimental
to their personnel
or to the recovery operation.
And they certainly don't
want to get anybody injured
by some type of atmospheric
condition or defense mechanisms
that are on these UFOs.
So that's why they
brought the Americans in,
thinking that Americans
probably know more than they
did about something like this.
And that's when the Air Force
came in, along with OSI.
>> EMERY: Let's talk
about the structure.
You said that this craft
is 60 feet in diameter.
Was there any markings on it
or anything significant inside
you could describe?
>> RICHARD: There were
some markings on it.
The South African port
called them symbols.
I think they referred
to as symbols.
The Air Force Air
Force OSI report.
Call them characters.
There were a number of figures
and characters inside the craft,
along the control panel.
There was a control panel with
three distinct sections where
an extraterrestrial could sit.
There were hand
controls similar to ones
we found in many different types
of extraterrestrial crafts.
They're using hands and their
mind to operate the vehicle.
There was two, I think,
television screens,
as they call them, or monitors
on the control platform.
There was tanks and other
things inside that probably
was some sort of a atmosphere
once the aircraft was flying,
they suspect.
As far as symbols
and characters,
there were some that were found.
And the OSI report
talks about them,
matching them to
other crash sites.
The South African report doesn't
mention that because the South
African report was a generic
report, just relating
what they did.
OSI report was more detailed,
comparing the symbols
and the characters found inside
that craft with other characters
found at other crash sites.
>> EMERY: Is this like a typical
Grey craft in your opinion?
You said it was a disk.
>> RICHARD: Yeah, it
was a flying saucer.
It was a typical Grey.
Yeah, the Grey.
Not necessarily the Ebens.
Because remember there's
two types of Greys.
The Ebens, definitely Grey.
And there's other
species of Greys
that are responsible
for abductions.
>> EMERY: How did they
transport this craft?
Where did they take it?
>> RICHARD: Initially, they
had to take that craft from
the Kalahari Desert to
the South African base,
which were miles away.
And they weren't sure.
It took them a long
time to figure out
how they were going to
transport this on vehicles.
And I guess they used two
different semi-trailers.
They had to get a crane to
pick it up and transport it.
>> EMERY: Wow.
>> RICHARD: That part of
it is somewhat sketchy.
The OSI report doesn't talk
about the transportation of it.
The South African
report does talk
about some form
of transportation.
But again, I'm referring
only to the OSI report.
The OSI report said
it was transported
to a hangar at a South
African Air Force base.
It was placed in a
hangar, and that's
when OSI began an
extensive examination
of the craft, the bodies,
and any other debris
that was found at
the crash site that
was brought back to the hangar.
And not only did OSI--
was OSI involved in
this, but Osa brought in,
of course, the SDART team,
which contained technicians
and scientists to study this.
We also brought in teams from
Wright-Patterson Air Force
Base in that time period, not
Area 51, but Wright-Patterson
Air Force Base, to look at this
and try to examine and compare
it to other crash
retrieval operations
that we were involved with.
>> EMERY: What type of medical
and scientific examinations were
done on these beings?
>> RICHARD: Well, the
beings were eventually flown
to the United States, and they
were flown to the Armed forces
Institute of Pathology, which
still existed at the time
in Washington, DC.
And that's where almost all
autopsies of extraterrestrials
are done.
At that time period, they
had a special facility
at the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology
for these particular
entities that are non-human.
They had separate facilities
and containment chambers
and things like that,
hazardous material,
operational procedures, just
in case some toxic material
that these extraterrestrials
contain in their body.
>> EMERY: Or biological agents.
>> RICHARD: Or
biological agents.
So they were taken there,
and a complete autopsy
were done on all of them.
The analysis was that they
were, in fact, they call
them a second species of Greys.
We know of that because we had
other crash sites with Greys
in them.
It took several years, actually,
into the '90s, to really study
in depth this craft.
And what they found
was this craft
was not the typical second
Greys type of craft.
It was almost like it was
a newer model Cadillac,
so to speak.
It was a newer model.
It had a different
propulsion system
than some of the older ones that
we've recovered years before.
The, what they call the
technical system, or maybe
the avionics system,
was something
that they'd never seen before.
And there were these
huge, long vacuum tubes.
Initially, you couldn't
figure out what they were for.
They were in a craft--
inside the craft,
and they figured
they were some sort of
a equalization device
that might equal
the gravity inside
or something to that effect.
Later in the '90s, they
determined that was exactly what
they were for.
Once the craft got into the
air, it maintained the gravity.
It was gravity
inducers, they called
them, that kept the gravity
inside the craft to be normal.
We found many of
these kind of devices,
although different technologies
in a lot of different crafts.
And actually, I think today
we have that technology.
>> EMERY: Rick, I know the two
reports are a little different.
Show me some of the
discrepancies in there,
between the African Air Force
report and the OSI report.
>> RICHARD: Well, the South
African report talks of one
extraterrestrial that was
captured alive and assaulted
a recovery officer.
The OSI report
mentions that somebody
was assaulted at the scene,
but the South African military
neutralized or killed that
particular extraterrestrial.
The OSI report shows
four bodies that
were transported
to Wright-Patterson
and then to the Armed forces
Institute of Pathology.
Differences between the
South African report,
where you can go online
and read this report.
And there's also sketches on
this report of the crash site
and of what the
extraterrestrials look like.
The OSI report, unfortunately,
is still classified,
although there are some parts,
small sections of the OSI report
that has been released under
FOIA in the early 2000s,
but it doesn't give you a
whole lot of information.
I know of the full report,
which is probably 100 pages,
and there is a
distinct difference
between the South
African report,
like I said, you can read
online, and in the OSI report.
So whether the live
extraterrestrial later
died of something else
or whether it was killed,
there were four
bodies transported,
according to the OSI report
to Wright-Pat and then
to the Armed Forces
Institute of Pathology.
>> EMERY: Rick, you talked
about they are a type of Grey.
Can you give me more
distinct properties
of what you mean by that?
>> RICHARD: Well, in 1989, we
knew there were two different
races of Greys, the Ebens from
the 1940 Roswell-Corona crash,
the 1949 Pelona Peak
crash, they were Ebens.
They were gray colored.
Now, the 1953 Kingman
craft had a different type
of Greys, not the
same biologics,
and not the same technology.
And then jump ahead to abduction
experiences and incidents
that were being done by Greys.
So the government
or DIA said, now
that's the second type of Grey.
And those are more hostile
type compared to the Eben Greys
are the more docile
or benevolent type.
>> EMERY: So what insights were
gained from looking at these
hieroglyphic symbols inside
the craft and outside?
>> RICHARD: Well,
we compared them--
OSI compared them to
other crafts that we had--
or recovered.
They were out at the Nevada test
site and stashed away out there.
And what we did was we
looked at the characters
on a different panels.
And a scientist
could connect, OK,
maybe what these
symbols mean was
how the operation of
these panels occurred,
or what these panels
meant, the explanation.
So all they had to do
was try to decipher what
these symbols meant,
because they were
on these different panels
and in other places
around the spacecraft.
So maybe these particular
symbols or characters
meant that were some-- maybe
some oxygen inside here
or something to that effect.
So they were trying
to trace these.
And since they had
other crafts that
were doing the
same thing to, I'm
pretty sure with linguists and
other people pieced together
what these symbols
or characters meant.
>> EMERY: Was there a
similarities to other craft,
that you're aware
of, of the insignia?
>> RICHARD: Yeah, there
were some comparisons.
And they were the same Greys,
the second class of Greys
that were responsible
for abductions
in these other crafts that
were found and connected
to these Greys.
>> EMERY: You mentioned, there
are these little indentations
for hands on the control panel.
Tell us more about that.
>> RICHARD: They were
indentations as if the form
of a hand could be placed
inside these indentations.
>> EMERY: Was it
metallic or plastic or--
>> RICHARD: I'm not sure
if they categorized that.
I believe it was a metal,
some form of a metal.
But the handprints
were indented in.
So as if the
extraterrestrials would just
put their hands
in there, I guess,
to try to fly the aircraft.
I'm not sure exactly.
In the past, I think we realized
that the operation of these Grey
crafts were done by
extraterrestrials in their mind
control over the equipment
and the avionics system.
>> EMERY: Did they mention
anything about the craft being
organic or communicating
with anyone?
>> RICHARD: No, they
didn't mention that.
They didn't mention
anything about organic
or they didn't mention anything
about the communications
in the OSI report.
>> EMERY: Was there any follow
up with this case that you can
speak as of today?
Have you been following
it or know of anything?
>> RICHARD: One of the problems
OSI had was once the classified
South African Air Force
report was given to OSI,
and based on what OSI did at
the crash site and at the hangar
where the craft was--
and remember, this
craft was eventually
moved to the United
States by a ship.
It was taken down to the
port, South African port,
put it on a United
States Navy ship,
and shipped back to
the United States,
and eventually probably
ended up at Area 51.
But there were a
lot of discrepancies
in the two reports.
And so what the US government
and intelligence community did
was they sent a representative
to the US embassy
in South Africa and got the
commander, the defense minister
from South Africa
together, to try
to weed out the discrepancies
between the two reports,
because there were a
lot of discrepancies.
Now you have to remember
that OSI wasn't on scene when
that South African
recovery occurred,
so they don't know
what happened there.
They only know what those
officers told OSI later,
when OSI examined everything
inside that hangar.
But there were
discrepancies in the report.
And I think that was a big
question of why their report was
different than the OSI report.
And again, OSI
wasn't at the scene.
So what they're saying
in their report,
some of it coincided with
OSI, but a lot of it didn't.
And I don't know that they
ever actually mediated
those two reports.
>> EMERY: You speak of these
crashes in South America,
Africa, North America,
we're working together.
Do you know anything about
the Russians and Chinese
and America working
together on these programs?
>> RICHARD: There's always
somebody that will talk rumors
about a cooperation-- a secret
UN cooperation agreement between
countries, sharing information
about extraterrestrials.
I've heard it.
I've heard rumors.
I've talked to some
people that used
to work at the United Nations.
There are a lot of
secretive committee meetings
between this country and
that country, the United
States, Russia, China, United
States, even North Korea.
So there are probably
secret agreements
between different countries.
And I wouldn't doubt that we
had an agreement with China
and with Russia to
share technology,
because, let's face it, if China
recovers the UFO in their desert
or in inner Mongolia, and
we recovered something
in the desert of Nevada,
sharing technologies might
help both countries.
Because China might look at it
differently than we look at it.
And we might look
at it differently
than China looks at it.
And if we pool our
resources in a secret way,
we might be able to better
both countries' technologies
or understanding of these
extraterrestrial crafts.
There's a difference between
sharing high-tech technology
with the Russians
or the Chinese.
If it's general knowledge,
questions pertaining
to anything other
than a weapon system,
I think sharing that technology
will help both countries.
And secretly doing this
within the United Nations.
And there's been Newsweek
articles and other articles
out there about this
sharing of technology--
and also that most of it's
done in the United Nations
in sealed, closed rooms between
these different countries.
I think if we shared
something with the Russians
and that will help
their technology,
and they shared something
back to us regarding
what they found in a particular
extraterrestrial craft,
I think that would
help both countries.
And it also will
strengthen an alliance,
even if it's a secretive
alliance between the United
States and Russia,
or China if it
was China sharing this with us.
But I'm sure that the directed
weapons or any kind of weapon
systems that we found on
an extraterrestrial craft,
we wouldn't want the Russians or
the Chinese to know about that.
>> EMERY: Well, Rick, thank
you so much for all this
intelligence.
I appreciate you being
on the show again.
>> RICHARD: It's
been my pleasure.
Emery,
>> EMERY: I'm Emery Smith,
and this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]